# OSAS
OSAS is an Open Source Accounting System intended to be used by small to medium sized corporations.

It is focused on eliminating manual entry and amendment of accounting data, instead relying on other operational and transcational software your company uses, such as trading systems, payroll systems, and invoicing systems to drive it's activity, with the data being passed in through customisable modules.

The accounting data of OSAS is stored in simple database schemas, with the intention that a data-literate organisation can easily customise the way it fetches it's accounting data, whether for data-warhousing or direct reviewing

The goal of OSAS is that your firm's accountants don't spend their time posting things in the accounting system, they set up the _rules_ for generating the accounting entries using your other business unit's operational systems, and let the data flow in. The accountants are then able to spend their time more productively; analysing finacial data, or coming up with innovative ways to annoy auditors.

OSAS works on the basis that your should _always_ be up to date. Entries are generated daily, either by the transactions you feed in, or by the logic inherent in those transcations - for example if your AP system records an invoice that relates to the following 3 month period, the transcation that is fed to OSAS will generate around 90 entries on consecutive book dates as soon as that transaction is created. The concept of 'closing the books' doesn't exactly exist here, they are closed at the end of the day, every day, with minimal input from humans required.

## The core accounting model
The core accounting model of OSAS is extremely simple. An entry consists of an amount, a currency, a book date, and a boolean value which indicates whether or not it is inked (as opposed to pencilled). Entry level detail is very granular stuff, and you should very rarely have to think about things on the entry level.

## The transactional model
The detail and complexity of the system lies in the transaction. A transaction conceptually represents a real-world exchange between two counterparts, and contains all accounting entries which are generated by that transction. Your goal should be to have one 'thing' being fed from your source systems represent one transcation. Some examples:


## Transaction Types
Most of the substantive data that comes into your accounting system will be driven by what your business units are doing, what transcations they are entering into, and how they are recording those transcations (and passing the information about them to you).
* Payroll
* AP
* Financial Instrument transcations and valuation
* Electronic POS
* Inventory management
* Fixed asset management
* Treasury Systems

### Derived transcations
 However some things are 'pure accounting', and not associated with any business units, or simply associated with those transcations - often these are derived from other accounting data. These include
* Fund manangement fees and incentive fees
* 

## stories
* I want to be able to see a list of all entries
* I want to be able to create a transaction
* I want to check whether the entries on a transcation balance

## coding notes


## Todo
* DONE get methods out of domain and put them in Use Cases
* change create transaction use case so
	* you can add entries to it
	* executing it commits the repo
	* executing it checks the balance
